cheatsheet.rst, before:

Python 2.7 Regular Expressions
==============================

Special characters::

    \       escapes special characters.
    .       matches any character
    ^       matches start of the string (or line if MULTILINE)
    $       matches end of the string (or line if MULTILINE)
    [5b-d]  matches any chars '5', 'b', 'c' or 'd'
    [^a-c6] matches any char except 'a', 'b', 'c' or '6'
    R|S     matches either regex R or regex S.
    ()      Creates a capture group, and indicates precedence.

No special chars do anything special inside ``[]``, hence they don't need
escaping, except for ``']'`` and ``'-'``, which only need escaping if they are
not the 1st char. e.g. ``'[]]'`` matches ``']'``.

Quantifiers::

    *       0 or more   (append ? for non-greedy)
    +       1 or more    "
    ?       0 or 1       "
    {m}     exactly 'm'
    {m,n}   from m to n. 'm' defaults to 0, 'n' to infinity
    {m,n}?  from m to n, as few as possible


Special sequences::

    \A  Start of string
    \b  Matches empty string at word boundary (between \w and \W)
    \B  Matches empty string not at word boundary
    \d  Digit
    \D  Non-digit
    \s  Whitespace: [ \t\n\r\f\v], more if LOCALE or UNICODE
    \S  Non-whitespace
    \w  Alphanumeric: [0-9a-zA-Z_], or is LOCALE dependant
    \W  Non-alphanumeric
    \Z  End of string

    \g<id>  Match previous named or numbered group,
            e.g. \g<0> or \g<name>

Special character escapes are much like those already escaped in Python string
literals. Hence regex '``\n``' is same as regex '``\\n``'::

    \a  ASCII Bell (BEL)
    \f  ASCII Formfeed
    \n  ASCII Linefeed
    \r  ASCII Carraige return
    \t  ASCII Tab
    \v  ASCII Vertical tab
    \\  A single backslash

    \xHH   Two digit hex character
    \OOO   Three digit octal char
           (or use a preceding zero, e.g. \0, \09)
    \DD    Decimal number 1 to 99, matches previous
           numbered group
.
.
Extensions. These do not cause grouping, except for ``(?P<name>...)``::

    (?iLmsux)       Matches empty string, letters set re.X flags
    (?:...)         Non-capturing version of regular parentheses
    (?P<name>...)   Creates a named capturing group.
    (?P=<name>)     Matches whatever matched previously named group
    (?#...)         A comment; ignored.
    (?=...)         Lookahead assertion: Matches without consuming
    (?!...)         Negative lookahead assertion
    (?<=...)        Lookbehind assertion: Matches if preceded
    (?<!...)        Negative lookbehind assertion
    (?(id)yes|no)   If group 'id' matched, match 'yes', else 'no'


Flags for re.compile(). Combine with ``'|'``::

    re.I    re.IGNORECASE   Ignore case
    re.L    re.LOCALE       Make \w, \b, and \s locale dependent
    re.M    re.MULTILINE    Multiline
    re.S    re.DOTALL       Dot matches all (including newline)
    re.U    re.UNICODE      Make \w, \b, \d, and \s unicode dependent
    re.X    re.VERBOSE      Verbose (unescaped whitespace in pattern
                            is ignored, and '#' marks comment lines)


Module level functions::

    re.compile(pattern[, flags]) -> RegexObject
    re.match(pattern, string[, flags]) -> MatchObject
    re.search(pattner, string[, flags]) -> MatchObject
    re.findall(pattern, string[, flags]) -> list of strings
    re.finditer(pattern, string[, flags]) -> iter of MatchObjects
    re.split(pattern, string[, maxsplit, flags]) -> list of strings
    re.sub(pattern, repl, string[, count, flags]) -> string
    re.subn(pattern, repl, string[, count, flags]) -> (string, int)
    re.escape(string) -> string
    re.purge() # the re cache


RegexObjects (returned from ``compile()``)::

    match(string[, pos, endpos]) -> MatchObject
    search(string[, pos, endpos]) -> MatchObject
    findall(string[, pos, endpos]) -> list of strings
    finditer(string[, pos, endpos]) -> iter of MatchObjects
    split(string[, maxsplit]) -> list of strings
    sub(repl, string[, count]) -> string
    subn(repl, string[, count]) -> (string, int)
    flags       # int, passed to compile()
    groups      # int, number of capturing groups
    groupindex  # dict maps group names to ints
    pattern     # string, passed to compile()


MatchObjects (returned from ``match()`` and ``search()``)::

    expand(template) -> string # backslash and group expansion
    group([group1...]) -> string # or tuple of strings, one per arg
    groups([default]) -> tuple of all groups, non-matching='default'
    groupdict([default]) -> dict of named groups, non-matching='default'
    start([group]) -> int, start of substring matched by group
    end([group])      (group defaults to 0, the whole match)
    span([group]) -> tuple (match.start(group), match.end(group))
    pos -> the value passed to search() or match()
    endpos -> "
    lastindex -> int index of last matched capturing group
    lastgroup -> string name of last matched capturing group
    re -> the regex passed to search() or match()
    string -> the string passed to seatch() or match()


Gleaned from the python 2.7 're' docs. http://docs.python.org/library/re.html
:Version: v0.2.1
:Contact: tartley@tartley.com

Commit message:

^ also has special meaning inside []

cheatsheet.rst, after:

Python 2.7 Regular Expressions
==============================

Special characters::

    \       escapes special characters.
    .       matches any character
    ^       matches start of the string (or line if MULTILINE)
    $       matches end of the string (or line if MULTILINE)
    [5b-d]  matches any chars '5', 'b', 'c' or 'd'
    [^a-c6] matches any char except 'a', 'b', 'c' or '6'
    R|S     matches either regex R or regex S.
    ()      Creates a capture group, and indicates precedence.

No special chars do anything special inside ``[]``, hence they don't need
escaping, except for ``']'`` and ``'-'``, which only need escaping if they are
not the 1st char. e.g. ``'[]]'`` matches ``']'``. ``'^'`` also has special meaning,
it negates the group if it's the first character in the ``[]``, and needs to be
escaped if you want to match it literally.

Quantifiers::

    *       0 or more   (append ? for non-greedy)
    +       1 or more    "
    ?       0 or 1       "
    {m}     exactly 'm'
    {m,n}   from m to n. 'm' defaults to 0, 'n' to infinity
    {m,n}?  from m to n, as few as possible


Special sequences::

    \A  Start of string
    \b  Matches empty string at word boundary (between \w and \W)
    \B  Matches empty string not at word boundary
    \d  Digit
    \D  Non-digit
    \s  Whitespace: [ \t\n\r\f\v], more if LOCALE or UNICODE
    \S  Non-whitespace
    \w  Alphanumeric: [0-9a-zA-Z_], or is LOCALE dependant
    \W  Non-alphanumeric
    \Z  End of string

    \g<id>  Match previous named or numbered group,
            e.g. \g<0> or \g<name>

Special character escapes are much like those already escaped in Python string
literals. Hence regex '``\n``' is same as regex '``\\n``'::

    \a  ASCII Bell (BEL)
    \f  ASCII Formfeed
    \n  ASCII Linefeed
    \r  ASCII Carraige return
    \t  ASCII Tab
    \v  ASCII Vertical tab
    \\  A single backslash

    \xHH   Two digit hex character
    \OOO   Three digit octal char
           (or use a preceding zero, e.g. \0, \09)
    \DD    Decimal number 1 to 99, matches previous
           numbered group
.
.
Extensions. These do not cause grouping, except for ``(?P<name>...)``::

    (?iLmsux)       Matches empty string, letters set re.X flags
    (?:...)         Non-capturing version of regular parentheses
    (?P<name>...)   Creates a named capturing group.
    (?P=<name>)     Matches whatever matched previously named group
    (?#...)         A comment; ignored.
    (?=...)         Lookahead assertion: Matches without consuming
    (?!...)         Negative lookahead assertion
    (?<=...)        Lookbehind assertion: Matches if preceded
    (?<!...)        Negative lookbehind assertion
    (?(id)yes|no)   If group 'id' matched, match 'yes', else 'no'


Flags for re.compile(). Combine with ``'|'``::

    re.I    re.IGNORECASE   Ignore case
    re.L    re.LOCALE       Make \w, \b, and \s locale dependent
    re.M    re.MULTILINE    Multiline
    re.S    re.DOTALL       Dot matches all (including newline)
    re.U    re.UNICODE      Make \w, \b, \d, and \s unicode dependent
    re.X    re.VERBOSE      Verbose (unescaped whitespace in pattern
                            is ignored, and '#' marks comment lines)


Module level functions::

    re.compile(pattern[, flags]) -> RegexObject
    re.match(pattern, string[, flags]) -> MatchObject
    re.search(pattner, string[, flags]) -> MatchObject
    re.findall(pattern, string[, flags]) -> list of strings
    re.finditer(pattern, string[, flags]) -> iter of MatchObjects
    re.split(pattern, string[, maxsplit, flags]) -> list of strings
    re.sub(pattern, repl, string[, count, flags]) -> string
    re.subn(pattern, repl, string[, count, flags]) -> (string, int)
    re.escape(string) -> string
    re.purge() # the re cache


RegexObjects (returned from ``compile()``)::

    match(string[, pos, endpos]) -> MatchObject
    search(string[, pos, endpos]) -> MatchObject
    findall(string[, pos, endpos]) -> list of strings
    finditer(string[, pos, endpos]) -> iter of MatchObjects
    split(string[, maxsplit]) -> list of strings
    sub(repl, string[, count]) -> string
    subn(repl, string[, count]) -> (string, int)
    flags       # int, passed to compile()
    groups      # int, number of capturing groups
    groupindex  # dict maps group names to ints
    pattern     # string, passed to compile()


MatchObjects (returned from ``match()`` and ``search()``)::

    expand(template) -> string # backslash and group expansion
    group([group1...]) -> string # or tuple of strings, one per arg
    groups([default]) -> tuple of all groups, non-matching='default'
    groupdict([default]) -> dict of named groups, non-matching='default'
    start([group]) -> int, start of substring matched by group
    end([group])      (group defaults to 0, the whole match)
    span([group]) -> tuple (match.start(group), match.end(group))
    pos -> the value passed to search() or match()
    endpos -> "
    lastindex -> int index of last matched capturing group
    lastgroup -> string name of last matched capturing group
    re -> the regex passed to search() or match()
    string -> the string passed to seatch() or match()


Gleaned from the python 2.7 're' docs. http://docs.python.org/library/re.html
:Version: v0.2.1
:Contact: tartley@tartley.com
